you spend all this time doing seo but
how do you know if it's really working
out
hey everyone i'm neil patel and today
i'm gonna break down if seo is working
for you
now before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
now it's obvious you're already starting
to rank high on page one you're getting
more traffic and you're getting more
sales but there's this weird honeymoon
period when when you're doing seo the
first two three months sometimes even
six months you're not getting the
results you want and you're putting all
this time effort and money into seo and
the question is should you continually
be spending that money is it really
worth it and there's a specific way you
can see if seo is working for you
so first off i want you to head to
ubersuggest neilpatel.com uber suggests
you can type in your domain name like
i'm typing in neil patel here
and you'll see uber suggests load gives
my rough over traffic overview now if
you have a brand new site you may not
see a graph like this
if you do see a graph your ideal goal is
for it to be going up and to the right
that's the first leading indicator that
seo is working for you if it's flat
doesn't mean all hope is lost if it's
going down again doesn't mean all hope
is lost there's ways to reverse that but
more so you want to figure out if seo is
working for you the easiest way is to
first see if the graph is going up and
to the right
the second thing that you can end up
doing to see if seo is working for you
is i want you to click on the dashboard
link and the left side of uber said s if
it requests you to log in make sure you
go and log in and i want you to click on
new project or create a project
you put in a url so i'm going to end up
putting in one of my company websites np
digital
and then click next type in the cities
that you're going after for me i'm going
after united states
and click next the next thing you're
going to want to do is put in your
keywords so as you can see here
it'll give you a list of recommended
keywords if you're a brand new website
you may not have that so i'm going to
type in keywords like seo that i may be
targeting i'm going to type in keywords
like marketing
seo company
and then the next thing i'm going to do
on the next page it's going to say track
my competitors some of these may be your
competitors some of them may not it's
pulling based on common keywords you may
not see any competitors here so i may
type in some of my competitors manually
or i can just be like hey you know a
hubspot could be a competitor glassdoor
forbes
actually no i don't want glassdoor
forbes let me do
crazy egg let me do
[Music]
let's see
manta.com and then click next
tracking frequency i want mobile rating
tracking you can do weekly or daily for
uh rank tracking preferences i recommend
daily so that way you can see your
fluctuations on a given day because
google makes over eight algorithm
changes per day you can click no here
and then boom you're off to a dashboard
it's going to pull up your information
now this project is brand new
so let me go over to the neil patel
project all you have to do is on your
dashboard click see more
under track keywords
and you can see your rankings over time
you may see a gray box like this if
you're
doing just uh if you just started
because you won't have too many results
when it comes to rank tracking
if you have been doing it for a while
you can change your date range like i do
last month
and you can see marketplace facebook
another keyword i may be tracking is
linkedin
and you can see if it's going up or down
over time that'll give you a good idea
of seos working for you
and you can continually add keywords
like i can add the keyword seo
company i can add another keyword like
seo
and then i just click start tracking my
rankings
and i'll take a bit because uber says
has to crawl
uh but as uber says crawls you'll end up
being able to quickly see all right what
are my rankings and as you can see it's
pretty quickly here right seo that's my
rankings for it
seo company
it hasn't pulled yet
but you can see over time all right here
are your rankings and you can see it on
mobile and desktop as well what's cool
is you want to ideally go up over time
and improve your rankings i was ranking
five i was ranking five and then now i'm
ranking number six you see all the
variations that's normal but what you
wanna see you should if you're starting
to do seo you'll start seeing your
positions go from 100 to
80 to 70 to 60 even though your
traffic's not going up if your rankings
are going up that's a good leading
indicator that seo is working for you so
that's how i judge if seo is working
once you're getting the traffic then i
look at conversion rates but for now i
recommend creating a product in uber
says tracking the main keywords that
you're going after so that way you can
see leading indicators if seo is working
for you keep in mind if you're not
ranking the top hundred you'll just see
a little dash a little line like that if
you're ranking in the top hundred you'll
see a number and the more greens you see
over time the better off and i recommend
you do daily rain tracking because as i
mentioned google does on average over
eight algorithm changes per day even
though most of them are small
it'll give you a better understanding of
what is happening if you need help with
your seo check out my ad agency neil
patel digital
thank you for your time today if you
have any questions leave a comment below
if you enjoyed the video like it share
it tell the people about it thanks for
watching